#### Using Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data to Estimate the Increase in Transportation Infrastructure in South East Asia
#### by Kyle Chen
Word Count:   
  
  **Abstract**  
    X  
    
  **Introduction**  
    South East Asia was, during the age of colonialism, a primarily bicycle-riding society. The bicycle was, for all intents and purposes, the car of the region, and it transformed life such that semi-suburban neighborhoods sprung up on the outskirts of cities like Hanoi, and many subjects under the colonial authority sprung up to supplement the demand for this everyday commodity. In fact, by 1926, there were an estimated 50,000 Bicycles in the Cholon Quarter of Saigon (now Ho Chi Minh City), and in Hanoi, the bicycle was fast becoming a standard mode of transport. The economic importance of the bicycle was held in such high regard that, as can be seen with the development of mobile shops and bicycle-rickshaw taxis, the people of South East Asia tailored the mobility tool to their own needs, and local bicycle makers and mechanics were able to withstand the economic downturn of the Great Depression due to the high demand of bicycles for their added mobility (Arnold & DeWald, 2012).  
    By the end of the 1990s, motorbikes had overtaken the bicycle as the primary mode of popular transport in Mainland Southeast Asia. In 1996, there were 4 million motorbikes in Vietnam, and by 2016, there are 43 million, with 4 million alone in the capitol and about 470 motorbikes per 1000 people. After the Doi Moi, the shifting of Vietnam's economy from a Command Economy to a Market Socialist Economy, due to the relatively low initial costs of motorbikes, as well as savings due to how motorcycles not needing as much parking space/needing dedicated parking space, being taxed less than cars, and not requiring a driver's license. This, alongside Hanoi's narrow roads and underdeveloped public transportation system, have seen to the dominance of the motorbikes in the city. The car, on the other hand, has become a status symbol, a way to flaunt wealth and status (Hanson, 2017).  
   The development of South East Asian transportation infrastructure, including rail- and waterway-based transport, as well as an increase in industry has led to an increase in CO2 emissions in the region. Thus, the spread of major population centers, as well as the development of smaller population groups, should show in the current data describing CO2 output, and predictions of future CO2 emissions should give us insight to how the population in these areas will spread. As transportation infrastructure must develop alongside population centers, CO2 emissions should be a good enough measure to check the growth of transporation infrastructure.  

  **Emissions and Population**  
    CO2 emissions data can be aggregated by population data.  
    **change this later** The study primarily illustrates the differences between certain data sets and data visualization of those data sets on the Indochinese Peninsula regarding carbon dioxide output as a response for the "the strong need for a high resolution CO2 emission map for high-resolution atmospheric modeling and satellite CO2 analyses". The study evaluated nighttime lights (NTL) as a way to estimate carbon dioxide output compared to a population-based carbon dioxide emissions output model in unites of metric tons per year per 1x1 kilometer square of space (which will henceforth be referred to by "t/y/km^2"). Findings reveal that NTL and population-based models have extremely high variances, and at best should be used for broader analysis rather than minute CO2 analysis. The NTL estimations instead seem to have higher emission estimations towards areas with the highest population, namely inner city areas of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, differing by more than 250 t/y/km^2 towards the NTL model when compared to the population driven model, and much lower emission estimations, differing by more than 250 t/y/km^2 towards the population model, in areas such as Can Tho City, which has approximately 1/8th of the population of Ho Chi Minh City (Gaughan et al., 2019).  
  **Emissions by Type of Transportation**  
   **change this later** Vietnamese GDP growth, which averaged at a fairly sizable 7.2 percent per year between 1993 and 2013, can be attibuted to Vietnam's economic liberalization of the mid-1980s and their subsequent integration into the global economy. Despite Vietnam's preference on road-based infrastructure, which accounts for 40% of the national freight in tons per kilometer and is the recipient of about 80% of public transportation spending, road transport produces the most carbon dioxide of the transportation means. River barge transport is nearly 4 times as fuel efficent than the road-based freight trucking. With both major population and industrial sectors of Vietnam, Hanoi and HChi Minh City, being situated on the Red River and Mekong River Deltas respectively, water-based transportation of freight, inland waterway transport (IWT) freight accounts for 48.3% of the tons transported in-country, compared to road freight's 45.4% share of tons transported in-country. However, road-based freight transport has been growing much faster than that of IWT, and accounts for 6.2% more tons of freight per kilometer transported at 36.6%, compared to IWT's 30.2%, as the road-based transport on average transports freight 31 more kilometers than IWT at an average of 143 kilometers. The size of the Vietnamese river-going cargo vessels has increased from 33,859 vessels in 2000 to 95,126 vessels in 2010, of which 50% are smaller 5-15 ton vessels, with a growing number of larger vessels of the 300 ton and above classes. IWT freight transport is projected to increase from 200,000 tons per day in 2008 to 300,000 tons per day in 2030. and from Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi Coastal shipping, according to data from the Vietnam Maritime Administration, also grew at an annual rate of 13.2% between 1998 and 2008. Overall tonnage that passed through Vietnam's seaports increased from around 40 million tons in 1995 to nearly 195 million in 2008, with ~42% of all tonnage being domestic freight transport and another 32% being export freight transport (Blancas & El-Hifnawi, 2014).  
  **Emissions Estimation**
  Newer emissions models, namely the one developed by the Laboratoire de Météorologie Dynamique, dubbed the "Interations between Chemistry and Aerosols", or "LMDz-INCA", using datasets from the World Data Center for Greenhouse Gases, still need to be calibrated properly for the detection and estimation of greenhouse gas emissions. Using this model to "predict" the previously observed data of both methane and carbon dioxide emissions from 2006-2013 in South and East Asia using two models: a standard version of the LMDz-INCA model and a zoomed version with a higher resolution centered over India and China, the predicted data for South-East Asia, primarly Indonesia, and Southern East Asia (whose data collection centers are near Taiwan and Hong Kong) was very similar to that of observed data from the time period for methane emissions. However, the model was inconsistent with prediction of seasonal carbon dioxide emissions in parts per million, with a lower Pearson correlation value, with *R = 0.27* for the standard model and *R = 0.30* for the specialized model. This trend can also be seen for the other three data sets from the region. In both Northern-Southeast Asia and Southern Southeast-Asia, while the two prediction models are very similar, there exists a large standard deviation with regards to the observed data (Lin et al., 2018). Thus, while greenhouse gas emissions may be used for population distribution prediction related to transporation and industry, there exists too broad a set of data in the carbon dioxide prediction gradient in parts per million.
  - Theme 1
  - Theme 2
  - Human Development Process
  - Geospatial Data Science Methods and Datasets
  
  **Data**
  
  **Conclusion**
  
#### References
Arnold, D., & DeWald, E. (2011). Cycles of Empowerment? The Bicycle and Everyday Technology in Colonial India and Vietnam. Comparative Studies in Society & History, 53(4), 971–996. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0010417511000478  

Blancas, L. C., & El-Hifnawi, M. B. (2014). Facilitating Trade through Competitive, Low-Carbon Transport: The Case for Vietnam’s Inland and Coastal Waterways. Directions in Development: Countries and Regions.  

Chontanawat, Jaruwan. (2019). Driving forces of energy-related CO2 emissions based on expanded IPAT decomposition analysis: Evidence from ASEAN and four selected countries. Energies (Basel), 12(4), 764.  

Gaughan, Andrea E, Oda, Tomohiro, Sorichetta, Alessandro, Stevens, Forrest R, Bondarenko, Maksym, Bun, Rostyslav, . . . Nghiem, Son V. (2019). Evaluating nighttime lights and population distribution as proxies for mapping anthropogenic CO2 emission in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. Environmental Research Communications, 1(9), Environmental Research Communications, 2019-09-11, Vol.1 (9).  
  
Hansen, A. (2017). Hanoi on wheels: emerging automobility in the land of the motorbike. Mobilities, 12(5), 628–645. https://doi.org/10.1080/17450101.2016.1156425

Lin, Xin, Ciais, Philippe, Bousquet, Philippe, Ramonet, Michel, Yin, Yi, Balkanski, Yves, . . . Zhou, Lingxi. (2018). Simulating CH 4 and CO 2 over South and East Asia using the zoomed chemistry transport model LMDz-INCA. Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics, 18(13), 9475-9497.  
  
Nosheen, Misbah, Iqbal, Javed, & Hassan, Syeda Anam. (2019). Economic growth, financial development, and trade in nexuses of CO2 emissions for Southeast Asia. Environmental Science and Pollution Research International, 26(36), 36274-36286.  
  
Meng, Jing, Mi, Zhifu, Guan, Dabo, Li, Jiashuo, Tao, Shu, Li, Yuan, . . . Davis, Steven J. (2018). The rise of South-South trade and its effect on global CO2 emissions. Nature Communications, 9(1), 1-7.  
