1.  How does Owen Barder define development? How does he extend Amartya Sen's definition to include the idea of complexity?  
        a. Barder defines development as a property of the economic and social systems, rather than specifically the sum of improvements for people. He states that development is an emergent property of the economy, where the more developed countries have a more complex system that better supports its citizens.  
2. Barder compared the economic growth of South Korea and Ghana between 1960 and 2010.  Why did he make this comparison?  What did this comparison demonstrate when used as the basis to validate economic models?  
        a. Both South Korea and Ghana during the 1960s were extremely poor, with economic growth rates extremely low. However, by the mid-1970s, the South Korean economy begins pick up steam and accelerates its own economic growth, while Ghana has only just began to increase its economic grouth in a way such that a noticable shift can be seen on the graph by 2006. While there still exists poverty and the working poor in South Korea, the whole of South Korean society shifted from a primarily agrarian economy to a primarily industrial, urban economy, changing the nearly everyone in the country.  
3. What was the toaster project? What did Thomas Thwaites attempt to do? Was he successful? What is the significance of this example in the context of complexity?  
        a. The toaster project was a project by an Thomas Thwaites to create a homemade toaster from the ground up with raw materials. He was, in his own words, "partially successful", as his toaster __did__ work, if only for a few seconds before bursting into flame. The significance of this example is to show that even small, economically insignificant objects are nearly impossible to craft-product reliably, and that the complexity of the economic system has led to the inevitable ubiquity of the object in question. Thus, the homemade toaster, which was entirely craft-produced, took 9 months to complete, required Thwaites to turn raw materials into parts for his toaster, as well as having to melt-down existing items back into raw materials, and didn't work for long enough to be useful.  
4. What was the Harrod Domar growth model? What are the two fundamental variables in this model? Who was Walter Rostow and what was the impact of his work on development?  
        a. The Harrod Domar growth model is an output model that states that to make a single unit of product, there exists an amount of capital required. This capital contains both labor and raw materials.  Walter Rostow was the creator of the Rostow model of economics, where growth is reliant on savings, and these savings begin a cycle of growth.  
5. What was the Robert Solow model?  How did it address the limitations of the Harrod-Domar model? Was this model successful at predicting economic growth?  
        a. The Solow model introduces a third part to the Domar model, that being "technical change." This model was partially successful at predicting economic growth, but the voodoo/magical element of "technical change" is very difficult to quantify.  
6. What was the Ajaokuta Steel works? How did it illustrate the transition from a focus on policies to institutions?  How did Acemoglu & Robsinson's book *Why Nations Fail* address governance and politics?  How is their argument a response to the previously failed idea regarding engineering prosperity by providing the correct economic advice?  
        a. The Ajaokuta Steel Works is a Nigerian investment into steel production. It illustrates a transition from policy ot institutional overwatch, as the Steel Works didn't add to the economy due to corruption, and the issue was thus not in the Steel Works itself but rather those running the Steel Works in the institution. the book *Why Nations Fail* addesses governance and politics as they counter the idea that development cooperation as involving politicians and convincing them on what is good economics by mentioning that the powerful elites use economics in their own favor, still involving government institutions.  
7. According to Barder, how successful have economic models been at describing and predicting growth over the past 50 years?  
        a. Barder states that older economic models have been unable to predict growth, however more complex and modern models have.  
8. What was the significance of Schumpeter's idea of creative destruction? How does it relate to firms and institutions? What is co-evolution and why is it significant?  
        a. The idea of creative destruction is about the adaption or death of products and companies due to constantly shifting markets. Coevolution is when, given the economic pressure from its opponents, a product or service adapts similarly to fit certain needs. This is incredibly important, as we have already stated the complexity of the economic production system.  
9. What is a complex adaptive system? What are some of its important features?  
        a. A Complex-Adaptive System is a system where interactions between a system's inhabitants generate coevolution. Complex-Adaptive Systems are very broad and difficult to precisely project evolution, and tend towards more complex models.  
10. Who was Haile Sellasie? What is the significance of Kapuscinski's book The Emperor? How did Ethiopia exemplify the suppression of emergent systemic change? Do you agree with this analysis?  
        a. Haile Selassie is the titular emperor of *The Emperor*, a retelling of the last days of the Kingdom of Ethiopia. The significance of the book and that of Ethiopia is that suppression of economic systemic change would mean greater inclusivity and less control over the people of Ethiopia. I agree with this analysis.
11. Why does Barder recommend resisting engineering as a policy implication?  What did he mean by iso-morphic mimicry?
        a. Barder recommends resisting enginnering as he means that an expedient engineered solution is impossible. Instead, policy should seek to harness what is inherent to the subject rather than shoehorn in engineers to try and get it working, such as that of soap powder. Isomorphic mimicry is a concept that means to create something that looks identical to something, but is ultimately less powerful due to the ease of which one can generate a mimic.
12. What did Barder mean by "resist fatalism"? Who was Norman Borlaug and what is the green revolution?
        a. Fatalism, in the context of this talk, speaks on the subject of doing nothing while evolution takes place. Norman Borlaug was a farmer who developed newer wheat varieties that are disease resistant using techniques in service, rather than waiting for wheat to evolve into something resistant to disease, which may have taken centuries.
13. Barder also recommended to promote innovation, embrace creative destruction and shape development.  What did he mean by these recommendations?
        a. Innovation goes hand-in-hand with creative destruction and development. As one product falls out of fashion, another instead takes its place. By constantly innovating and adapting, newer products will reach the market such that human development will be bettered by greater economic choice and better practices by corporations. The antithesis of this is the music industry, which has seen great decline due to the dominance of CD disk companies bullying out innovation.
14. Who was Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen and what was his insight about economic systems and evolution?
        a. Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen is an economist who wrote the book *The Entropy Law and the Economic Process*, and set the foundation for ecological economics, where natural resources are degraded when used for the economy.
